Welcome to my workshop on
machine learning in JavaScript.
My name's Charlie Gerard, I'm a staff
engineer at Socket and overall,
I'm a self-proclaimed
creative technologist.
So what that means is that I like to push
the boundaries of what can be done with
technology and
more specifically with JavaScript.
So I've been doing front-end
development for the past ten years.
And on my personal time,
I like to explore and
see what else I can do with JavaScript.
So on your day-to-day, if you're
currently working as a front-end dev,
you're probably building
business minded applications.
But there's actually a lot more things
that you can do with JavaScript, and
one of the things is machine learning.
So I'm really excited to be here today
with you and to show you kind of what I've
been doing with TensorFlow.js,
over the past six years now.
I think the first time that
I actually built a little
TensorFlow.js application was in 2018.
So before we get started, I kind of wanted
to maybe show you a few things that
I've built to kind of give you
an idea of what is possible.
So I think maybe on the kind
of more useful side,
you can build a dark mode clap extension.
So you can use a machine
learning model and
train it with the sound of you clapping.
So if you do clap clap and then it just
turns on, [LAUGH] the dark mode and
light mode, I was doing this
when I was working at Netlify.
So it was an extension that was customized
to just work on the Netlify website,
but it's something that
you could do as well.
Another one of this is maybe also on
the useful side is an application,
a little mobile, a website that you
that was kind of optimized for mobile.
Where you could take pictures
of things around you and
kind of tell you which bin you should
throw it into, [LAUGH] like recycle.
But that depends on the regulations
of wherever you're living, but
it was using image detection and then you
can find public resources of your city and
tells you where you should
throw certain things.
And then another one on the more kind
of creative side is to actually build
a custom machine learning model with
your own body movements using a piece of
hardware.
And just recreate a prototype of a street
fighter game, so you play air street
fighters, you're punching the air and
then it makes your character do things.
So it is a prototype,
it's not like a real street fighter.
There's only one character
that reflects my movements.
I could push it further and
also make it like a real fighting game.
But it's also something that
you can do with TensorFlow.js.
You gather live data from movements and
then you create your own model, and
you use the output to
control an interface as well.
And in the same kind of in
a more pre-trained model thing,
it's like a clone of Fruit Ninja that
uses body movements to play as well.
So it uses Three.js as well, so it's
all in client side JavaScript where you
track your body movements and then you
actually apply that to a 3D world.
And you can see I'm not really
good at it in this demo, but
you can see that as I'm moving,
there's a bit of a delay.
But it's a game where you can play Fruit
Ninja instead of having to exploit on
a screen, you can play it with your
hands in front of your webcam.
And maybe just like one
more before we move on,
it's also experimenting with building
UIs with body movement as well.
So Figma allows you to create some
plugins and with a bit of a hacky way,
you can actually have it as well.
Use TensorFlow.js to track, let's say
the movements of your body on the camera,
and then you apply that
to layers on Figma.
And I mean, obviously,
it's still a prototype as well.
But I like to experiment with
seeing what else you could do,
then just type on the keyboard and use the
mouse to be able to create experiences.
And this is not a website,
this is also on Figma, so
it's using JavaScript to do things
that are even outside of the browser.
So hopefully by the end of this workshop,
you'll understand better how
to build things like this.
You don't have to be doing creative things
at all, you could do more useful things
for your job, but it's just understanding
what TensorFlow can offer you.
And how to actually in
practice put that together and
then however creative you
wanna be will be up to you.
In terms of prerequisites, it's just
hopefully things that you're kind of
working with every day, a git, Node,
a code editor, I use VS code, and
your browser, I use Chrome, but there is
hopefully nothing more that you will need.
Everything will be in the repository,
we'll just run npm install and
then write some code.
So throughout this workshop, we're going
to learn about three main features for
TensorFlow.js.
So there is using pre-trained models,
then doing transfer learning.
I think at the moment with
more of a AI movement,
sometimes it's called RAG for
retrieval augmented generation.
I'm not sure about why we call it RAG now,
but it feels so
similar to transfer learning.
In the context of Tensor.js,
we use transfer, well,
I'm gonna call it transfer learning.
And it's basically using a pre-trained
model, but adding custom input.
So if you're using an image
recognition model,
but it's not trained with
the images I want to predict,
then you can kinda merge these together
and create an application as well.
And at the end of this workshop, we're
going to create our own custom model.
So from scratch, we're going to create
an object, or not object detection, but
image detection model.
So we're gonna gather our data,
split it between the training set and
the testing set.
We're gonna write a model,
talk about layers and things like that.
And in the end, we'll have an application
in the browser where we can draw
certain things and feed that to a machine
learning model and get a label out of it.
And then we'll talk about where
you can go from there as well.